# geoCFD

Process geometry for CFD simulation - remove internal faces between adjacent buildings.

It's a cross-platform project (currently tested on `x64-windows10` platform, see [geocfd-Ubuntu](https://github.com/SEUZFY/geocfd-Ubuntu) for the basic setting up on 
`wsl-ubuntu` platform). 

- support for all `LoD` levels in `cityjson`(lod 1.2, lod 1.3, lod 2.2).

- support `multithreading` process.

- support exporting as `.json` file or `.off` file.

- visualisation:

	[ninja](https://ninja.cityjson.org/)

- validate the result file via: 

	- `val3dity`  - [validate](http://geovalidation.bk.tudelft.nl/val3dity/) the geometry
  
  	- `validator` - [validate](https://validator.cityjson.org/) the `cityjson` file

## Usage

Compile and build it, enter into the `out\build\x64-Release` folder (on windows for example) then open the console (e.g. Windows PowerShell)

```console
.\geoCFD --adjacency=string [options] ...
```
If you type `--help`, the usage infomation will be printed:
```console
usage: geocfd --adjacency=string [options] ...
options:
  -a, --adjacency             adjacency file (.txt) (string)
  -l, --lod                   lod level (double [=2.2])
  -m, --minkowski             minkowski value (double [=0.01])
  -e, --target edge length    target edge length for remeshing (double [=3])
      --remesh                activate remeshing processing (warning: time consuming)
      --multi                 activate multi threading process
      --json                  output as .json file format
      --off                   output as .off file format
      --all                   adjacency file contains all adjacent blocks
      --help                  print this message
```
example:
```console
PS D:\SP\geoCFD\out\build\x64-Release> .\geocfd -a adjacency5.txt --multi

====== this is: D:\SP\geoCFD\out\build\x64-Release\geoCFD.exe ======
=> source file:            D:\SP\geoCFD\data\3dbag_v210908_fd2cee53_5907.json
=> adjacency:              adjacency5.txt
=> lod level:              2.2
=> minkowksi parameter:    0.01
=> enable multi threading: true
=> result file folder:     D:\SP\geoCFD\data
...
```
### Note

* if the program does not exit, you may need to re-open your console again and re-run it. (for example, dataset_2).

    This may be due to the complex geometry of the buildings in `dataset_2`, one of the buildings contain holes.

* the `minkowski param` is set to `0.1` by default.

	The param can be altered, but proceed with caution, too small minkowski param may not fill the holes of the building in `dataset_2`.

## Prerequisite

[CGAL](https://www.cgal.org/) - The version should be above `5.0` since we can use the `header-only`, which means we don't have to manually compile `CGAL`.

install `CGAL` via [vcpkg](https://vcpkg.io/en/index.html):

check this -> 

[install vcpkg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b7SdgK7Y510)

[Download CGAL for Windows](https://www.cgal.org/download/windows.html)

## How to use?

This project is built and executed on a `windows10(64 bit)` platform.

Clone this project and open it in [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) **2019** or newer version, you should be able to directly build and run.

## Compile info

C++ Standard: `C++ 11`

Compiler: `MSVC`

Generator: `Ninja`

Commands:
```console
"..\MICROSOFTVISUALSTUDIO\2019\COMMUNITY\COMMON7\IDE\COMMONEXTENSIONS\MICROSOFT\CMAKE\CMake\bin\cmake.exe"  
-G "Ninja"  
-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE:STRING="RelWithDebInfo" 
-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX:PATH="..\geoCFD\out\install\x64-Release" 
-DCMAKE_C_COMPILER:FILEPATH="../MicrosoftVisualStudio/2019/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.29.30133/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe" 
-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER:FILEPATH="../MicrosoftVisualStudio/2019/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.29.30133/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe"  
-DCMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM="..\MICROSOFTVISUALSTUDIO\2019\COMMUNITY\COMMON7\IDE\COMMONEXTENSIONS\MICROSOFT\CMAKE\Ninja\ninja.exe" 
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE="../dev/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake" 
```
The commands are the information of compiler and generator(for example, the file path of `cl.exe` and `ninja.exe`), which should
be generated by your IDE automatically.

## Attention
1. **vertices repeatness**

	Using `CGAL::Polyhedron_3` can be tricky, since `Polyhedron_builder` doesn't like repeated vertices, and even if it workswith repeatness, the created `Polyhedron_3` is NOT closed(and thus can not be converted to `Nef_polyhedron`).Thus extra care needs to be taken when creating `Polyhedron_3`.

2. **geometry error**

	In `lod 2.2` geometries of buildings can get complicated, in our test there can be some geometry errors in the original dataset, for example:
	```console
	build nef for building: NL.IMBAG.Pand.0503100000018412-0

	CGAL::Polyhedron_incremental_builder_3<HDS>::
	lookup_halfedge(): input error: facet 29 has a self intersection at vertex 79.
	polyhedron closed? 0
	```
	A manual fix can be possible towards certain building set but not general, if we take the **universality** and **automation** into consideration, using `convex hull` to replace the corresponding building seems to be a good choice, yet this approach may lead to the compromisation of the original building shapes.
	
	There are also other issues in `lod 2.2`, see [robust](https://github.com/SEUZFY/geoCFD/tree/master#robust) section for details.
	
## Robust

One important aspect is that `CGAL::Nef_polyhedron_3` will complain when the points of surfaces are not planar, which will lead to a `invalid` `Nef_polyhedron`.

A possible solution is demonstrated as below (it has been tested on building set 1):
```cpp
typedef CGAL::Simple_cartesian<float> Kernel;
typedef CGAL::Polyhedron_3<Kernel> Polyhedron_3;

Polyhedron_3 polyhedron = load_my_polyhedron();
CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::triangulate_faces(polyhedron);
```
A triangulation process of the surfaces of a polyhedron can make points planar since there's always a plane that passes between any three points, no matter their locations but this is not guaranteed when having four or more points, which is pretty common in `lod 2.2`, among 23 `Nef polyhedra` from 23 buildings, 22 of them are
`invalid` and only 1 is `valid`.

It should however be noted that, triangulating process will modify the original geometry a bit (tiny change but for now not sure how to visualise / quantify the possible influence) and also have time cost.

Also we need to take the `geometry validity` of `CGAL::Polyhedron_3` into consideration. The `is_valid()` function only checks for `combinatorial validity` (for example in every half-edge should have an opposite oriented twin) but does not check the geometry correctness. In order to check it we can use `CGAL::Polygon_mesh_processing::do_intersect` to check for example if there are any intersections (need to verify and test).

Why do we need to check `geometry validity`? Because this could break the corresponding Nef polyhedron, for example, the corresponding Nef polyhedron is not valid.

possible solutions: allow users to switch on/off different robust check functions by defining different macros, for example:
```cpp
#define _POLYHEDRON_3_GEOMETRY_CHECK_
#define _POLYHEDRON_3_COMBINATORIAL_CHECK_
...
```

issues related minkowski sum and irregular building:

[CGAL Minkowski sum assertion when performing union operation of Nef_polyhedron_3](https://github.com/CGAL/cgal/issues/6973)

## Other platforms

If you use other platforms (such as `Linux` or `MacOS`), you can refer to `CMakeLists.txt` file and use it to build a `CMake` project using `src`, `include` and `data` folder.
